CREDITS.md, before:

# Credits
Work is licensed under the GNU GPL-3.0, unless otherwise noted

## Code

Most code by P. Douglas Reeder

Simplex 3D noise by Ian McEwan, Ashima Arts

Gosper curve implementation by Jos Dirksen in "Learn Three.js"

## Models

Stabbur (https://sketchfab.com/models/d13301cc019345589af8a415feebc985)
by "Shorty5600" (https://sketchfab.com/Shorty5600) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Bucket With Fairies (https://sketchfab.com/models/99c4ec82b5d948a6be139e99acd57d28)
by "7718" (https://sketchfab.com/7718) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Hermit's Windmill (https://sketchfab.com/models/f7f354caaf50408fa3f3525eec716d7b)
by "doop" (https://sketchfab.com/doop) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Tower (https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/tower-b08d8f5a40894169b851d269b18ebbbd)
by "beherca" (https://sketchfab.com/beherca) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

konoha tengu (https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/konoha-tengu-low-poly-realtime-character-892bfcdaba3d4a1899214f92ef5e9a63)
is copyrighted by Manoel Darocha Deoliveira

## Textures

Nimbostratus_Cloud_PNG_Clipart-875.png is in the public domain

TexturesCom_Trees0096_masked_S is in the public domain

TexturesCom_MetalVarious0052_1_M is in the public domain

## Sounds

"Minimalist" from _SelectCam Buddha Machine_ is by Olaf Post

"Swell2" from _SelectCam Buddha Machine_ is by Randolph Johnson & P. Douglas Reeder

"Worlds" (https://soundcloud.com/gabebaker88/worlds)
by Gabriel Baker (https://soundcloud.com/gabebaker88)
is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

"ding" (https://freesound.org/people/Daronoxus/sounds/393633/) 
by Daronoxus (https://freesound.org/people/Daronoxus/) has been released to the public domain.

opening fanfare to Strauss' First Horn Concerto in E-flat (https://freesound.org/people/TaranP/sounds/361684/)
recorded by "TaranP" (https://freesound.org/people/TaranP/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.

"Off stage crash" (https://freesound.org/people/bone666138/sounds/198876/)
by "bone666138" (https://freesound.org/people/bone666138/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.

"Light Rain in Forest" (https://freesound.org/people/jakobthiesen/sounds/100495/) 
by Jakob Thiesen (https://freesound.org/people/jakobthiesen/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.


## Licenses

GNU GPL-3.0: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html

Creative Commons Attribution: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/

Commit message:

Canyon shader: replaces triplanar texture mapping with biplanar

CREDITS.md, after:

# Credits
Work is licensed under the GNU GPL-3.0, unless otherwise noted

## Code

Most code by Doug Reeder

Simplex 3D noise by Ian McEwan, Ashima Arts

Gosper curve implementation by Jos Dirksen in "Learn Three.js"

Biplanar texture mapping by Inigo Quilez - https://iquilezles.org/articles/biplanar/

## Models

Stabbur (https://sketchfab.com/models/d13301cc019345589af8a415feebc985)
by "Shorty5600" (https://sketchfab.com/Shorty5600) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Bucket With Fairies (https://sketchfab.com/models/99c4ec82b5d948a6be139e99acd57d28)
by "7718" (https://sketchfab.com/7718) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Hermit's Windmill (https://sketchfab.com/models/f7f354caaf50408fa3f3525eec716d7b)
by "doop" (https://sketchfab.com/doop) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

Tower (https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/tower-b08d8f5a40894169b851d269b18ebbbd)
by "beherca" (https://sketchfab.com/beherca) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

konoha tengu (https://sketchfab.com/3d-models/konoha-tengu-low-poly-realtime-character-892bfcdaba3d4a1899214f92ef5e9a63)
is copyrighted by Manoel Darocha Deoliveira

## Textures

Nimbostratus_Cloud_PNG_Clipart-875.png is in the public domain

TexturesCom_Trees0096_masked_S is in the public domain

TexturesCom_MetalVarious0052_1_M is in the public domain

## Sounds

"Minimalist" from _SelectCam Buddha Machine_ is by Olaf Post

"Swell2" from _SelectCam Buddha Machine_ is by Randolph Johnson & P. Douglas Reeder

"Worlds" (https://soundcloud.com/gabebaker88/worlds)
by Gabriel Baker (https://soundcloud.com/gabebaker88)
is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution

"ding" (https://freesound.org/people/Daronoxus/sounds/393633/) 
by Daronoxus (https://freesound.org/people/Daronoxus/) has been released to the public domain.

opening fanfare to Strauss' First Horn Concerto in E-flat (https://freesound.org/people/TaranP/sounds/361684/)
recorded by "TaranP" (https://freesound.org/people/TaranP/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.

"Off stage crash" (https://freesound.org/people/bone666138/sounds/198876/)
by "bone666138" (https://freesound.org/people/bone666138/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.

"Light Rain in Forest" (https://freesound.org/people/jakobthiesen/sounds/100495/) 
by Jakob Thiesen (https://freesound.org/people/jakobthiesen/) is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution.


## Licenses

GNU GPL-3.0: https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html

Creative Commons Attribution: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
